---
layout: post
title:  "My current workflow"
excerpt: "The tools I currently use as part of my workflow..."
categories: [notes]
comments: true
---

The tools I currently use as part of my workflow include:
 
* **Brackets** - for simple static pages and simple web apps.
I like using the live preview feature it has, which
makes it simple to see any live changes to the site
as you code it.
 
* **Visual Studio Code** - I use VS code for my React projects
I'm currently doing. I like the variety of extensions
available to help speed up my workflow. Especially for
React projects, where I usually have to run a development
server to get the site running on my browser. I use
the terminal within the editor to set things up, whether
it's installing npm packages, setting up webpack dev-server
with hot reloading, or using create-react-app.

* **Command line** - for getting projects started, navigating folders, making directories, etc.

* **Npm** - used to download node packages, and run scripts to help automate parts of my workflow (similar to task runners like Grunt/Gulp).
 
* **Git** - I use Git version control for committing to
local repositories and pushing to Github.
 
* **Sourcetree** - I use Sourcetree to get a more visual
view of the flow of commits for a particular project.
Helpful for when I have issues merging two branches of code,
or when pushing code to Github.
 
* **Postman** - I use Postman to experiment with and test
out an API endpoint and see the data it pulls in a
GET request for example.
 
* **Create-react-app** - been using this to build simple
React apps. Good to be able to focus on the code rather
than all the setup regarding webpack configuration
and the like.
 
* **Surge** - recently started using surge.sh for deployment.
I've been deploying my work using React on it so far,
and it has been pretty easy to use.