---
layout: post
title:  "Thoughts on the Olooq Landing Page"
excerpt: "My thoughts on this project, what I learned, and what 
challenges I encountered."
categories: [projects]
comments: false
---

I learned many things building the
Olooq landing page.
 
First, I used Bootstrap container-fluid classes to
make the site width responsive, and to create the
columns for the section with fruit/veggie images.
 
Each section was set to height 100vh in order to
fit the size of the viewport height on any device.
I did encounter difficulties making each element's
size on different devices responsive. So I used a
variety of techniques to handle that including using
media queries, bootstrap classes, centering vertically
and horizontally using CSS transform.
 
I also used flexbox to more easily build the layout
of the 2nd section where the benefits text is split
into 2 columns back to back, reversing the order of
the icons and text for both columns.
 
Jquery animations were set to execute after the scroll
position enters the corresponding section. I used a
library called in-view.js to do that, and configured
the offset to make the animation timing more smooth.
 
One of the interesting things I came across was the
need to debounce in order to improve performance.
I created a function that calculates the distance from
the bottom of the page to the current scroll position,
and used that to animate the back to top arrow at the
bottom at a certain distance. Consequently, if you
looked in the browser console, the scroll event was
firing over 100 times.
 
To apply debounce, I used a library
called underscore.js. The result after debouncing was
that the scroll event only fired once every few
seconds, cutting out the useless continuous firing
of events, which would impact performance for more
complex applications.